1. Python theory questions

1. What is the program?
A program is a set of instructions written in a specific programming language  and these instructions tell a computer what to do.

2. What is the process?
A process is a computer program that is currently being executed.

3. What is Cache?
A cache is a storage area for temporary files. Theses files are held here so that they can be easily retrieved when a request is made and a cache saves memory usage.

4. What is Thread and Multithreading?
A thread refers to a path in a process that is being executed. When a program is being executed (process), a thread is created for such
execution. A process can be split up into smaller units or threads and this is called multithreading. Multithread
means having several paths for the execution of a program.

5. What is GIL in Python and how does it work?
GIL means Python Global Interpreter Lock. GIL is a process lock that ensures that python only executes one thread at a time. It works by preventing multi-threading so as to preserve
the accuracy of the reference counter of objects.

6. What is Concurrency and Parallelism and what are the differences?
Concurrency is process whereby a computer executes a set of tasks in a non-sequential, overlapping manner, involving context-switching.
The computer can start a task and then mid-way, switch to another task before returning to the previous task.

Parallelism is a process that occurs when a computer independently executes a set of tasks at the same time.
The difference between the two is that concurrency involves context switching while parallelism does not.

7. DRY, KISS, BDUF:
DRY: Do not repeat yourself. It means avoiding unnecessary repetition in code.
KISS: Keep it simple, stupid. It means writing code in way that is simple, efficient and uncomplicated.
BDUF: Big design up front. It means ensuring that before a software is created it is thoroughly designed and the design plan should be well laid out.

8. A garbage collector is an entity in python that is responsible for freeing up memory when an object is no longer
referenced. Python keeps a count of all objects that are initialized and when those objects are no longer used in the program, their
reference count becomes zero and the garbage collector removes them from memory.

9. A deadlock is said to occur when two or more transactions are waiting for each other to give up locks on a table.
A livelock is said to occur when a request for an exclusive lock is always denied due to the existence of overlapping shared locks.

10. Flask is a light weight python framework used for building web applications, especially the
backend.

2. Difference between python 2 and python 3
- In python 2, integer division is done using the single slash like so '/' while in python 3, integer division is
done using the double slash like so '//'.
- In python 2, printing to the console is done using the print statement without the parenthesis while in
python 3, printing is done using the print function which must include parenthesis.
- In python 3, strings are unicode by default while in python2, strinngs are ASCII by default.
- Python 3 is simpler than python 2. Python 3 has a simpler and more readable syntax than python 2.

5. Agile methodology, Scrum: name at least 3 types of meetings that
are exercised by Agile teams and describe the objective of each
meeting.

- Daily Scrum: the meeting is attended by the development team and the scrum master and in this meeting, the developers are
asked 3 specific questions such as: What did you do yesterday?, What will you do today? and What are the blockers
or impediments in your way?
- Sprint Review: this meeting is held at the end of a sprint and it is used as a demo time to show stakeholders what
was achieved during the sprint.
- Sprint Retrospective: this meeting is a time when the development team and the scrum master discuss the outcome of
a just concluded sprint and find out what went well, what did not go well and what needs improvements.

6. Exception handling in Python, explain what each of the following
blocks means in the program flow: Try, except, else, finally

The try block is always executed. It is the first block that is executed and if an errors occur in the try block, it is
caught in the except block.
The except block is for catching errors that occur in the try block.
The else block is else block is executed if a certain condition is not met in the try block.
The final block is always executed, no matter what.

7. How can we connect a Python program (process) with a
database? Explain how it works and how do we fetch / insert data
into DB tables from a python program.

We can make such connection using a database driver module. In python and mysql, one of such drivers is the
python-mysql-connector.

8.




